ADDING A PHOTOGRAPHY PROJECT

Website folder: F:\nategud.com\9-3-2026
The only code file you edit: photography\projects.js

The category list, hover previews, and Cover Flow galleries now all use that
one file. No separate gallery page, duplicated photo list, or pixel dimensions
are needed for a new project. Existing gallery links still work.

EXAMPLE: ADD WYOMING

1. Put your photographs in a new folder:

   photography\photos\wyoming\

   For example, put mountains.jpg, river.jpg, and camp.jpg in that folder.
   Use your actual photo filenames. JPG, PNG, and WebP files work.
   Keep filenames and capitalization exact. Simple lowercase names are easiest.

2. Open photography\projects.js in Notepad (right-click > Open with > Notepad).
   Make a backup copy first. Find this line:

   window.PHOTO_PROJECTS = [

   Paste this COMPLETE block immediately below that line to put Wyoming first:

  {
    id: "wyoming",
    title: "wyoming",
    date: "9-26",
    description: "Your project description goes here.",
    photos: ["mountains.jpg", "river.jpg", "camp.jpg"],
  },

3. Change the description, date, and photo filenames. Save the file.
   Open index.html and go to photography. Wyoming appears automatically,
   with a hover preview and a complete Cover Flow gallery.

   If you already had the website open, refresh it. If a hosted copy looks
   unchanged after uploading, use Ctrl+F5 to bypass the browser cache.

WHAT EACH LINE MEANS

id          The folder name and unique project identifier. Use lowercase letters,
            numbers, and hyphens only. The id must match the photo folder exactly.
            Example: id "new-york" uses photography\photos\new-york\.
title       What visitors see. It can contain spaces: "new york".
date        The short date shown with the description, such as "9-26".
description Your caption. To add a line break, type \n inside the quoted text.
photos      The exact filenames, in the order you want visitors to see them.

You can list each filename on its own line if that is easier:

    photos: [
      "mountains.jpg",
      "river.jpg",
      "camp.jpg",
    ],

Keep the quotes, commas, brackets, and braces from the example. Do not paste
the // marks from the commented example at the top of projects.js. A normal
apostrophe is fine inside double quotes. If your caption needs double quotes,
write them as \"quoted words\". Avoid smart/curly quotes around code values.
Save as projects.js, not projects.js.txt. If Notepad asks, choose UTF-8 and
All files. You only need a normal text editor and browser. No terminal,
account, installation, or internet connection is required.

SHORTCUT FOR NUMBERED PHOTOS

If your files are named wyoming1.jpg, wyoming2.jpg, ... wyoming12.jpg, you can
replace the entire photos array with:

    photos: 12,

The names must be the id followed by a number, starting at 1, with no gaps,
spaces, parentheses, or leading zeros, ending in .jpg. Existing projects use
this shortcut. If your filenames differ, use the explicit list instead; there
is no need to rename your files.

ADD, REMOVE, OR REORDER PHOTOS LATER

- Add the new image to the project's photo folder and add its filename to photos.
- For numbered projects, increase photos from 12 to 13 after adding wyoming13.jpg.
- Delete a filename from photos to remove it from the website without deleting
  the original image. Change a numbered count to a filename list to skip images.
- Reorder filenames to change photo order. Convert a numbered count into an
  explicit list if you want a custom order.
- New images' sizes are detected automatically. Never crop them for Cover Flow.

REORDER OR REMOVE PROJECTS

Move or delete a complete { ... }, block in projects.js. The block order is
the category order. Keep a comma after every block, including the last one.
Keep the opening window.PHOTO_PROJECTS = [ and the closing ]; in place.
Removing a block does not delete the photographs on disk.

EXISTING PROJECTS

Leave the page line on existing projects alone. It preserves old addresses
such as projects/sawtooth.html for Idaho. New projects do not need a page line.
Their gallery address is created automatically. Wyoming's will be:

   photography/projects/gallery.html?project=wyoming

You do not need to edit project-gallery.js, photography.js, project-data.js,
CSS, or any HTML page to add a project. The hidden dimensions/cache data for
the original photos is internal; new filenames are handled automatically.

OFFLINE AND UPLOADING

Double-click index.html to browse locally. This setup uses local script files,
so it does not need a server, an installation, or an internet connection.
To publish later, upload the updated projects.js and the new photos folder
to their matching locations on your existing host. The initial refactor also
needs its updated support files deployed; uploading the full website folder
is the simplest way to deploy this version the first time.

If an image is missing, check the filename, extension, capitalization, id,
and folder location. If the entire category list is missing after an edit,
undo that edit and compare the punctuation with the complete example above.
